
Assumption

Definition

node - unit of communications. It can be a source a sink or a forwarder.

DEFAULT - a route capable of routing all packets. It can be mobile or 
stationary and only guarentees that a route exists to the outside
world.

CORE - these are routes known to exist but may or may not be reachable. All
defaults are in the CORE. CORES typically have more than HAM connectivity.

Tunnel - a route capable of sending to the dynamic network through a connection
not part of the dynamic network. Example : routing through the internet to
two parts of the dynamic network that can't speak to each other

Gateway - a route capable of forwarding to another subnet/network.
gate - a node marked as a potential gateway.


Protocol
++++++++

Messages:
 keep alive - sent once every x minutes. Rebroadcast by each node.
 route find - multicast message to immediate neighbours to search for a
route to an IP. If the route is in neighbours route table, send back route, 
and send a forced KA to destination, to start a route discovery.
Forced KA - a keep alive with no restrictions.

Gateways -
Given a local cluster, how does the nodes agree on a gateway?
 - requirements:
	node needs to be marked as gate
	gates send own protocol (see below)
	nodes must accept gate as a gateway.
 
cluster collapse - a cluster is formed from independant nodes into a cluster
with one gateway.
	- gates communicate capablity and decide number of gateways needed.
	- gates take job based on uptime. Longer uptime has higher priority.

cluster merge - two cluster come to a close proximity that the gateways 
decide to merge into one cluster.
	- gates communicate capability and decide if merge is desirable.
	- if merge is desirable gate with higher uptime becomes new gateway.
	- message sent to 'losing' network to change gateway.

cluster split - the cluster gets so big, or the cluster gets so dispersed that
a descision is made to split the cluster and assign another gateway.
	- overloaded gate sends 'help' msg.
	- first gate to respond gets job immediate.
	- all other responses are sent cancel request when they come.
	- 'help' msg is not forwarded.

cluster hopping - a single nodes moves from one gateway to another.


Definition of the CORE
- That part of the dynamic network that has access to to higher bandwidth 
routes. example a route with a satellite uplink, or a T3 line. The route
may or may not be dynamic.

Preferences
- always choose the main route in the routing table if it is there. (fastest).
- if no route, but a gateway exists use that.
- if no gateway, do a route find.


Virtual Circuits
- a capability of forming a closed reserved bandwidth route.
VC have two types: Permenant, and Switched.
Permanent - VC with one and only one route. If the route is removed for any 
reason the VC is torn down.
Switched - a VC with a single reserved route and alternate routes with a 
'right' to the bandwidth. Bandwidth is not reserved, but traffic from a SwVC
has preferential treatment if it shows up.








